and I'm just going to say at the top of the tape that I'm Marsha Marnie and I'm
with Margaret Prosser and I can't say the name of your farm what's the name of
the farm? Cronin's farm and it's Rudry. Rudry? Yes, near Caffilly. I thought we were near Caffilly and it is Friday September the 6th 2019 so I'm just gonna pop that down there
and when we were coming over the hill I could see I thought are we near Caffilly? I couldn't believe it I didn't think we were that close. Yeah you came up this road here. Yeah, yeah. So you're looking across there it's a different perspective because it's gorgeous looking across the levels there isn't it? Yes, yes it is. Yes, yes, yes. And then when you get on the top there you can see Clevedon Pier. Really? That's amazing. I might have to come back when it's a clearer day. Yes that's right. Yes it's not so clear to
today. No. I suppose we've had it rain this morning and that it makes it more limited. You've met Marjorie Neal have you? Yes I've met Marjorie. Yes, yes. Are you related to her? No, no we're great friends. Oh really? Oh really? In Farmers days. Oh crikey. Yes, yes, yes. Oh yeah everyone's it's so lovely everyone I have to say Margaret that everyone I've met have been just adorable and so open and welcoming it's just such so lovely making my job so much easier.
Because Marjorie was born down on the Moors. Yeah. Would you know Steph Davis? Oh what's her maiden name? I can't think of her maiden name now. She was born at Lower Newton House I think. Stephanie. Stephanie.
I can't think of her maiden name. I can't think of her maiden name now. I'll think of it. But I wonder if we can just start off if you could just tell us when you were born and where you were born.
And I was born at 31 Herbert Avenue, Risker. As I say my mother was a farmer's daughter and my father was in the steel works you know. And we moved from there then to Park Place at Risker.
And we lived there for quite a few years. And then we moved from there then and took the farm at Langoes. And that was 19... oh dear... 1946, 1947. That's right.
And then I moved back down then to Slewis in 1956 when I married. Dear Wim.
So what was your father's name? William Benjamin Thomas. And your mother? Minnie Harris. Oh that's a nice name, Minnie. So your father worked in the steel works you said. Where?
In Pontimister Steelworks which is not there at the moment. That was taken down some years ago. Was that in Newport?
Risker. Pontimister Risker. Yeah. So he wasn't a farmer at all?
No. No. No. No. And then he had his sister Evelyn Mary Thomas and she was 44 years in Risker at a radio in a letter to shop.
And then his other sister, Aunty Phyllis, Phyllis Thomas, she was a teacher up in Abercrombie.
And they lived in... I've got to think of the name of the place now. Oh dear, it's terrible. They lived in Woodland Drive in Rogerstone.
I don't know whether you know that area, do you? Do you go to Risker at all?
Not very well at all, no. You don't? No, no. You go up through Woodland Drive, Rogerstone up to Risker and then of course you carry on up the valley then.
So your mother was from a farming background? Yes, yes. Where was she from?
Near a house farm, Pantig, near Pontipur. Or New Inn it was really. So how did she meet your father?
Well I think my grandparents on my father's side lived in New Inn and I think daddy should go back and forth to see them and that's how they met I suppose.
It's funny how people do meet, don't they?
So your father had to learn how to be a farmer then, presumably?
Yes, he was always interested. His cousin used to keep the Mardie farm, Kukunu, just below the Kukunu Gulf Coast.
Yes.
And he spent a lot of time there. So that's, you know, he really got fed up with the, as the saying is in the stairworks.
So he thought they'd branch out and they had this farm in Langoes then. And we took that over Lock, Stock and Barra. We took over the, when they say Lock, Stock and Barra, we took over the stock and rented the farm there.
Okay. Yes. Langoes and I liked Langoes very much. We looked out for the door and you could see the Penavan.
Oh he has. Yes. And 1947 was a winter. Oh terrible.
Was it really?
Oh shocking yes. I mean we had tremendous snow. The milk didn't go from there with the lorry for over a week.
Wow.
Because we were snowed up.
Yeah.
Right to the hedges.
Crikey.
And then there was a camp of Italians at Bolch and there was another, the Germans in, Italian, German soldiers in Brecon and they cut through really.
Yes.
Really?
Yes. It was, it was horrendous. So, and then I used to go to school in Brecon then from Langoes and walk up to the, hell I used to hate school.
I'd rather be home doing the work there. And, um, there was a cycle sometimes, but walk at the times and I used to really dawdle you know.
And then I'd hear the train coming around from Talgat to Brecon and stop at the Langoes Hall and I'd try to, but no I never got there and I came home.
And then my father, I said, look you cannot do this you see. You must, you have got to go to school.
And I said, well I don't like school. So I left when I was 15. So, uh, that was my story of schooling in Brecon.
Crikey.
Yeah.
So how old were you when your family moved down here? Or when I say here, over there?
Oh, to Berryhill.
When, so, where is Berryhill?
It's on the main road, go through Castleton.
Yeah.
To Newport.
And before you get down to where there's a big, uh, walk over the bridge.
Yes, yeah.
Well, it's on the right hand side.
Oh really?
Before you get there.
Yes.
It's not there now. Is it gone? Is it all gone?
No, the farm is still there.
Is still there?
Well, they were, uh, pick your own. But, um, they, they, they, they haven't done that for some time now.
And, um, there's a bungalow that's built next to it, uh, which the person that took over after my mother and father finished, uh, he was there for some time.
Um, well I tell you who was there was Robert Peel. You know, Robert Peel, the, or something, it's his grandson, but his name is Robert.
Really?
Yes.
Amazing.
So why did your parents move from Nangorse? Why did they come here?
Well, because, um, well, it was a bit, a bit bigger farm.
Mm.
And, uh, we like this area more because my parents, well, my father particularly moved from this area.
And, as I say, his, um, his cousin used to farm the farm down below, so he's, there's quite a lot of, you know, there with them.
And then, so, so, did your parents move to Sluice Farm or was that you?
No, I moved to Sluice Farm. I married from Berryhill and I married Dillwyn from Sluice Farm.
So how did you meet Dillwyn?
Oh, Young Farmers.
It's quite, it's quite a matrimonial place to meet. Yes, Young Farmers, that we should belong to.
So was it very active then, Young Farmers?
Yes, we were, yes. Um, St. Maryns Young Farmers went under. But I did belong to the Llynne Sluice Farm in Brecon, or Langorse, when I was there.
And, um, yes, we were quite active, you know. Yes, we were fun, different, go to different shows and so forth, you know.
But, um, oh yes, it's quite a matrimonial place to the Young Farmers, I think.
Really? Yes. I've heard that so many times, people who've met through Young, it must be an informal marriage bureau. Yes.
Crikey.
Oh yes, yes. So it's, um...
So you met Dillwyn and then he was already living at...
He was born down Sluice.
He was born there.
Yes, yes. And he's got two sisters. One is Betty, which is two years younger, older. And she's living in Gloucester. She's 90 now. And then, um, the other sister lived at, um, did you see who met Derek?
Yeah. Well, Derek's mother was his sister to Dillwyn.
Oh, okay. Doreen. Yeah.
She died, um, oh, she wasn't very old. She was quite with cancer, bad. And, um, very sad it was.
Yeah. And, um, sorry, Derek from... So, how have we met? How did you come to meet Derek, excuse me, ask it?
Uh, well, Derek and Andrew were both through John Southall, who worked for the drainage board.
Ah, right.
Yeah. Yeah. So he's a chap that goes round cleaning them and...
Yeah.
...you know, talking to all the landowners and stuff. So, John introduced me to... He said, you've got to speak to Derek and Andrew Prosser.
Oh.
So that... And then that's why I'm here now.
Yes.
Yeah. Very grateful to him.
Yeah. Well, my, um, Father Prosser, he was on the drainage board and he was supposed to lend him to different meetings and that, you know.
So that's, um, Dillwyn's father.
So what was his full name?
Winford. Winford Prosser.
Winford Prosser. So what...
And his wife was living at Lansoy. And I don't know how they met. Um, uh, let me see. I think, I think Dillwyn's father had a, a housekeeper.
And then, um, my mother-in-law, Marjorie, she was Marjorie, she came down to meet her.
And then, uh, they seemed to pat... to get friendly and then they married, you see.
I love that.
Yeah. So Lansoy, Lansoy, uh, at the side desk.
So what was, um, uh, sorry, what was his name? Winford?
Winford.
So he was on the drainage board, you see.
Yes, yes. And Dillwyn was on the drainage board.
Yeah.
Yes.
So I'm getting confused. So Winford is Dillwyn's father.
That's right.
So Winford was on the drainage board. So what do, what can you tell me about Dillwyn's parents and on the farm and...
Uh, well, um, Dillwyn's dad, um, Winford, um, has got a brother, I'm sure he photographs out there afterwards. Um, Campbell Prosser. He was a barrister of law. And he was out abroad for a long time in Singapore.
Really?
And then he had a sister, um, which I've got the photograph, the whole family's out there, you can see later in. And, um, then he had a sister that lived in, um, in Cardiff Road. Uh, and then, um, um, Missy Campbell. And then there was Dillwyn who was killed in the war, First World War. And, um, I was Winford, um, well, I'll have to, I can show you the photo.
I want, it's on the wall, so it's easy for you to have a look at it on the wall, really.
Yeah. Yeah. So that was, like, that was Dillwyn's father's side, you see. And do you know...
And they had butcher shops in Cardiff, Clifton Street. Yes.
There's a big butcher in there. And, um, that was their business, more or less, you know.
So, but, a butcher shop. Yes.
Butcher shop. So, how, when, when did the farm come into the...
Oh, Winford, um, he wasn't keen on the butcher shop, so he went farming then. So he took over, took sluice then, rented sluice.
Oh, right. And then, of course, milk. And then he used to have a milk round, uh, with a milk van and everything.
And, um, Dillwyn used to go occasionally when his father had a meeting up in London, but, uh, he wasn't so keen on the, on the milk round.
But, uh, he used to do it when his father had to go to London for meetings with the drainage board and that, you know.
So why did they have meetings in London?
I, I, I don't know, really. It's, um, and of course they used to have the meetings out at, um, Maygut, didn't they?
Yeah. That's the place, is it Maygut? Yes, Maygut, isn't it? They used to have the...
Oh, Nash. Nash, rather. That's right.
Oh, Pike Corner. That's right, Pike Corner.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so, uh...
So, uh, was it, was it a, always a dairy farm then, the Sleuths farm?
Yes. Yes. Yes. They had cow, we had cows and everything, and sheep. But, um, and then we moved up here later,
and then, um, they moved there, but then they went out to the cows, and so the Andrews only got the sheep at the moment.
So then you met, um, Dillwyn?
Three young farmers.
And so, um, uh, what, so where did you marry, actually?
In Criccourney Church.
Oh, did you?
It's a dear little church, yes.
It's a house now that's been turned into a...
Yes, Criccourney.
Do you know, um, do you know, um, well, you know the main road I said about where this arch goes,
you're turned down for Criccourney for the golf course.
Yes.
And it's just before you get to the golf course. Or just after the golf course, sorry.
On the right?
On the left hand side you've got a little lane up to the church.
Really?
Hmm.
Oh, I don't think I've been to the church.
Oh, I haven't. It's a house now, it's, um...
Was it a chapel then, or a chapel?
No, a church. Hmm.
Really?
Yeah, Criccourney Church.
Oh, I have to go back that way afterwards, I might go and have a look.
Yes, yes, yes.
I had no idea.
And, um, I think there's three or four houses there.
Hmm.
Uh, because there was a farm next to it, but they've gone into, into homesteads, you see.
Hmm. So then, so did you then start your married life at Seuss Farm?
Yes, yes.
You moved in with, with your in-laws?
Yes. No, no, they moved, they built a house. Do you see the house on the side?
Yes.
They built that.
Oh.
And then we went into the farmhouse and they built that and went into there.
So this would have been, what, the mid-50s?
Yes, 57.
57?
Yes.
So, um, so what was the farm doing then? Was it...
Milk.
Milk, and milk round.
Yeah.
Yeah, and they fill the bottles, you know, and wash the bottles then in the little shed that was there.
That's, um, yes, I've got a photograph here. Excuse me.
How many cows did you have, Margaret?
Pardon?
How many cows did you have?
Uh, well, not like they got today, they got hundreds today, haven't they?
And they made about 125.
Oh, that's dope.
Which is quite, you know, big for those days, I suppose, wasn't it?
You know.
Nice to get a photograph here, I think, aren't they?
And that wasn't all hand-milt, was it?
Had it?
Was that all milked by hand?
Well, it was years ago, and then they, of course, they went in with the machines then, you know.
This is a photograph of a sluice house.
This was before 1963.
That's where it was when I used to live there.
Oh, crikey.
There was a milk found by there.
Yeah.
A dairy there, where they used to rust in the bottles.
Cows used to go into there.
Yeah.
And then this was the garden.
I mean, Anne's got a beautiful garden down there now.
Wow.
And then there was a shed where we kept chickens.
Yes.
Um, so it all altered, of course, because all of us is buildings here now, is it?
This is all changed, isn't it?
Yeah, all definitely.
I mean, it's all built up.
Yes.
Very rural then.
Yes, yes, yes, it was.
Thank you.
And then in this field here, which Father Potter was in the wound, that's where they built the
house, you can see Wyvern.
Oh.
You know, they built that there.
Did they build that because Dillwyn was getting married?
Yes, yes, they built that to go in there.
And, um, oh, but I was only thinking the other day, I think it was about 90, oh, I've forgotten
about it.
I was thinking about how much it cost the other day.
The bridge cost nearly more to get across the Ream to get to the house than the house,
I think.
Really?
Yes, it was.
You forget about that, don't you?
Yes, you do.
You have to get across the Ream.
That's true.
Yes, yes.
So what were your first impressions when you moved down there and started married life?
Um, well, I used to go back and forth there before we were actually married, you know,
and have supper and things with my mother-in-law and that.
Yeah, and, um, yes, well, I liked it very much because we had grown with Berryhill, we had
two fields on the moors as we call them.
Okay, yeah.
That rented those and, um, so it wasn't any different for me really, you know.
Yeah.
And then, of course, we used to go to Young Farmers Club in St Melons.
Did you?
Yes, yes, and the chapel there used to hold the Young Farmers meetings.
Yeah.
That's, uh, oh yes, I've enjoyed life.
There was a farmer's wife, so I've spoken to lots of farmers, and, um, so as a farmer's
wife would you, would you have been aware of and concerned with all the Reams and the
maintenance and stuff?
I mean, I guess what I'm trying to ask is, was there very much a clear, this was what
the woman did and this is what the men did, or was it all mixed up?
Um, well, I think, I, I, I used to enjoy going out and feeding calves and things and that,
you know.
And then when I was born, we used to put him in the pram, put him in the corner of the
milking shed, and he'd be sat there, you know, watching the cows coming in and out and
in the house and, um, before we had a parlour that was, the milking parlour type of thing,
you know, where you could get up in the house.
But, um, yeah, I've always been, I've always been interested outside.
Um, so I used to spend quite a bit of time before we went to Langhorst with my, my grandparents
in Newhouse Farm, Pantake.
Yeah.
You know, I just go up there and stay when I was a little tot, you know.
Put me on the bus in Newport and my aunt would meet me in the way.
How lovely.
Yeah.
So, did you ever get involved in the bottling of milk down there?
I used to help sometimes and that helped, um, well, Father Prosser used to, you know,
mostly he'd do that, so I'd have to come back off the round and then wash the bottles and
get them ready then to fill up the next morning. You know, it's, uh, yeah. Oh yes. Oh yes.
Oh yes, I've had a, I've had a very enjoyable life really.
That's, you can tell that it shows in your face.
Oh, does it?
Yeah, it does.
What about the poultry? Was that the important part of the, the family?
Yeah, we used to sell eggs on the, on the milk crumb quite a lot, you know.
And then there was, if there was any surplus eggs then, uh, I used to bring them to the husband brothers.
They used to have, um, uh, uh, well, I don't know, what do you call it, an egg, um, centre
that they would have eggs and then they'd take them out on different rounds.
Where were the husband brothers based?
Uh, it's, it's, um, Lisbon.
Oh really?
Yes, yes. But that's all different now altogether.
Mm.
You know, it's, places change, don't they?
Yeah. Well, it's interesting, look at the new photograph, because you must have seen enormous change in your lifetime down there.
Oh yes, yeah, especially now, uh, more buildings up for stock and everything, you know.
Yeah.
And, um, I mean, I, I was trying to keep, well, clean tidy and all this, because, and we used to have a boy living in then, you see.
Did you?
Yes, yes, you know the, um, excuse me, you know the kitchen.
Mm.
You're going for the back door, don't you? Well, that's the dining room, the kitchen for every day.
Yeah.
Then there's the kitchen, isn't there?
Then there's the other room.
Mm.
Well, we used to have a boy living in there.
Did you?
Yes, yeah. And, um, he had his bed in there, and there was a stove in the corner. We used to have for the fire, and he had an armchair.
Yeah.
He always ate with us.
And, um, yes, so, um, we always had a boy living in.
Mm.
And, and who, who was he? Was it a series of people, or?
Um, well, yes, different, we, we had a few from some brides that didn't live in there, came back and forth, which is, you know, from, or, Cucurney.
But, um, a couple of state elves actually lived in there, you know, with us, and they'd eat with us and all this business, you know.
But, um, I mean, he had a television, well, not a television, a wireless more like, but he did have a television towards the end.
And, um, yes, we always had a boy living in.
Mm.
I suppose the, the farm could support that, whereas it'd be difficult to do that today, wouldn't it?
Well, I suppose, yes, it's different, it's the different ideas today, isn't it?
Yeah.
It's, um, different world today, really.
Mm.
It's changed a lot, really, with farming, hasn't it?
Well, did you have sheep, then?
Yes, we've had some sheep, yeah, pet lambs and something, you know, feed those, and, yes, we had, it's, it's, it's, I can't remember how many, um, sheep,
we didn't have so many sheep as well now, naturally, because we had the dairy in as well, you see.
Mm.
It's, um, yes, oh yes, I've enjoyed my, um, my life until now.
So, Ant, um, used to go up onto the sea wall and bring the sheep in on ponies.
Yes.
Did you ever get involved with that?
No, not really, no, no.
Um, yes, we put sheep over on the sea wall.
And then, um, uh, my Doreen, uh, Derek's father, Philip, would come over and, uh, they'd have this horse and a little trap thing, you know, and they'd sit in there and then, they'd, they'd go up then to get onto the buss and to bring the sheep up and all this business, you know.
And then one day, um, I don't know what happened, but anyhow, the, the pony started kicking the bottom of the buss and, of course, got out of the, out of the showers and left these four or five and the buss and went backwards where it was suffering.
What, backwards down the slope?
Well, it went back, it went back, back, you know.
Oh, I see, because the horse had gone.
And there was the showers hanging up on the wall.
Were they okay?
Well, they were alright.
And the dog jumped out a bit quick.
And the dog was in as well.
Oh dear, yeah.
They used to come over every Sunday and go down and see the sheep and something or sort of those out and bring that for us then.
Because the sheep used to graze on the other side of them?
Yes, yes.
And then to, like, um, the tide used to come in so far, you know.
But they hired the, um, I think they hired the bank then.
Um, yes, they did hire it because, of course, the sea, the water was coming, the sea was getting in higher, wasn't it, you know.
Because you're very close to the sea wall there, aren't you?
Oh, yes, it's on the field really, isn't it?
The field across.
Did you ever experience the water coming over?
You see it sometimes if it was very rough, just splashing up a bit, you know.
But, um, you know, I never had the thought in mind of thinking, oh gosh, I hope it doesn't come over there.
Never thought of that.
No.
Which I suppose it has, well, it's had in some places over the years, isn't it, you see.
Did you ever use the shore where the sheep graze?
Is there like a picnic spot when you had children were little?
Yeah, we used to go over there and, um, like, in a lot of the, have you been over there?
You've been over there, of course.
Hmm.
Well, I haven't been over there for years really, so I don't know what it's like.
But, we used to have little, little, um, re, what's the terms of water coming in where there's been bits of ditches?
Yeah, like rivulets.
Yes, yes, yes, mm-hmm.
Yeah, yes, we used to go over there with our neighbours, um, Eddins, Snackle Farms, Sluice Farm that would be.
The one just on the side of the road.
And, uh, yes, we'd go over there for picnics and, uh, yeah, we used to have a, you know, now and again have a good time.
Was it, was it, um, uh, was there a real sense of community there then?
Uh, down the village, yeah, uh, you mean the village itself?
Yeah.
Oh yes, because those, those opposite the hall, those are all built, you see, um, because when I went down there first there was no houses there then, you know, so they'd been built.
And, uh, at the back of the hall is a little cul-de-sac.
Yeah.
That's, the council houses that, further over, they were, they were there when I went down.
Um, and different houses being built around there, you know.
Yes.
Oh, it's nice of them, I've been, I'm quite upset really, because WI have been a member for 62 years down there.
Have you?
Yes.
And, uh, I used to take my mother-in-law, because she didn't drive, Deirin's mother didn't drive.
So, when, then, after, uh, lunch, we'd go down on the, the second Tuesday of the month, I used to pick her up and we'd go down, because she was president at that time, and there was the back, the old black stoves, I don't know if you've seen the old, round black stoves.
Yeah.
We used to light that.
In the village hall?
In the village hall.
And then put the chairs and tables up, and then go back then, and I'd pick her up then, after tea then, to go to WI.
And, uh, yes, we did that for years.
Um, and then I used to have the milk van then, I had the milk van for a couple of, oh, for about a week or more in the afternoons, to go to, um, a place in Bremde to get a sanding machine.
And, um, put in the back of the end, and then we'd do the floor, you know, sand, get the floor all nice and, well, slimming up.
Yeah.
Yes.
Oh, we've had some good times round there.
Really good times.
So, somebody was telling me that St. Brides WI used to have a canning machine.
Yes.
Do you know about that?
Yes, yes, and Mother Prosser had it.
Now, where it is, I don't know.
Yes, because we used to put fruit into our own canning.
Yes.
Hmm, hmm.
I wonder where it is.
Now, I, I've forgotten about that.
I wonder where that is now.
Yeah, now I wonder where that is.
You've got me thinking that.
I'll be trying to explore where it is.
So, would they, would the WI rent it out, or would they take it out to people and say, do the canning for people?
Uh, I could, I wouldn't, I can't say that.
I mean, um, I know we used to borrow it and do our own.
At least Mother Prosser did more than I did, but I'd give a hand, you know.
But, um, that's interesting how you brought up that canning.
That's going to bother you now.
I'd be worried about that.
It'd be lovely if it's still around somewhere.
Yes.
Yes, it would, wouldn't it?
And it's still going, the St Brides WI?
St Brides?
No, no, it's folded up a long time ago.
Oh, really?
Yes.
Oh, that's a shame.
Yes, yes.
So, a lot of the people from there now come to Peterstone.
And this is why I'm rather upset that Peterstone is talking about folding up.
Oh.
Hmm, hmm.
I mean, the secretary, she's moving away down to Swansea, well that's fair enough.
The president, she did say that she'd do it for another two years.
Well, the two years has come up now.
And no one else wants to take the responsibility.
That's such a shame.
It is a shame.
And it's been going how long?
Well, I've been down there 62 years.
That's phenomenal, Margaret.
And it was on a long time before that.
Oh.
Yeah, so sad really.
How many members have you got down there?
Yeah, we, we, there's, there's, um, from St Brides area, around Asda, where people live,
I expect there's 14 people come from that area.
And it, it seems such a shame that, um, you know, no one will take it on.
After all that time.
Yeah, it is.
Because I was president for some years, about seven years, after Mother Pross had given it
up, I don't know how long she was.
But, um, no, it's quite sad.
I was quite, quite, um, upset about it really.
But I'm hoping, um, that I, I might join Kevin Mabley, Michael Stone when.
Hmm.
Which is nearer.
Yeah.
But, um, the distance didn't make any difference to me.
I was talking about that.
It's the longevity though, isn't it?
Wins and weather.
Yeah.
Pick up a couple of ladies from Marsville on the way down, you know.
Oh, how sweet.
Yeah, she was just enjoy it.
That's how it goes, isn't it?
So the, um, uh, so you, you said Mother Prosser used to can fruit.
Yes.
Where did, where did her fruit come from?
Oh, well, um, she had, we had plum trees, you know, we had trees, we had plum trees and
the, um, we had a couple of trees around here.
Yeah.
Plum trees and things and, well, I suppose that was our garden then.
You know, and then we'd have beans and stuff like that and, you know, to roast it.
Hmm.
But, um, yeah, I've forgotten about that canning machine.
So what was the process then?
So you'd pick the fruit and then wash it?
Yes.
Was it easy?
And then put it, make a syrup.
Yeah.
And then put it in the tins.
And then with the machine you'd seal it all.
And that would be a tin fruit.
Gosh, and that would last all the winter?
Well, yes, if, you know, you make as much as you can, you know.
Or we could.
And, um, yes.
Gosh, I'm glad you thought about the canning machine.
You've got me worried now.
Well, it's come up a few times, you see, so I thought, how curious.
Yes.
I've never heard of a canning machine before.
And that St Brides' WI has a canning machine.
It just sounds really resourceful to me.
Yes, that's right.
Yes, yes.
I wonder where that is now.
Did the WI, because in the past the WI has been absolutely fantastic at recording local people and their memories.
Did the St Brides' WI ever do anything like that?
Ah, no, they folded up, as I said, and a couple of them came from there then, which are a few more now.
Mm-hmm.
Because the president that is now, uh, she lives in one of the houses by us does.
And of course a couple of her friends have come as well.
Mm-hmm.
But, um, as I say, I was quite upset last week when I knew that it was going to fold up.
Oh, that is upsetting.
Yes, it is.
Yeah.
But there we are.
If people are not interested, you can't, um, can't force people to be.
You can't, unfortunately.
You can try and encourage.
Yeah.
But, um, yeah, so.
So as a young woman, a young wife, was it part of your, one's social life, the WI?
It was really.
Mm.
Yes, yes.
I went up to London for the two AGMs.
Excuse me.
Just .
WI was something that you did as a young wife and it's something you've continued
to do for a long time.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
I, um, yes, I enjoyed WI.
I went to London for the AGM on two occasions, which is at the, um, Albert Hall.
And that was very interesting where they come from all over the country there and, you
know, that's, that's gone back a bit.
But, you know, being, it, so what struck me about, you know, down on the moors there, that
it's quite a different landscape, isn't it?
It's flat.
Oh, yes.
You've got all the watercourses.
Yes.
Was that a challenge in some way?
I don't know whether you've found, um, of course there's people living in the church
now, the church was, and on about, oh, what, what am I, five foot, am I, five foot
or nothing?
Mm.
Uh, it's up about, um, well I should know, was it, where the Great Flood was.
Yes, yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
And, um, the bank, you can see the bank, now in one of the fields of one of the farms
up as you go down the road a bit.
Yeah.
Um, yes, uh, well, I think I'm right in saying that the water molars came up and they lived
to Castleton.
Yeah, it was, yeah, because it goes down, doesn't it, apparently?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, yeah.
It's very low, very low.
Did you ever experience flooding there?
No, no, the rens would fill up quite a way, you know, but no, no, we never had any flooding
as such, no.
What was it like having young children around those things, though, was it ever a worry?
Um, oh yes, yes.
Yes, now the neighbours further, on the next farm down to, um, was the farm then, um,
they lost a child that drowned in the, in the, um, water.
Oh, oh really?
Yes, yes, yes, mm.
But, um, I suppose you get, you know, I suppose if you're, if you're born down there, you'll
get used to it.
I know the one that's came down, the one down, further on down the road, uh, was from London,
came down to see the sister, um, came down and brought the little one, of course, went
down the steps and down in the reen there, you know, which is very sad, very sad.
Oh gosh, that's so sad, isn't it?
Terrible, terrible, terrible.
Yes, but, um.
When you first went to Sluis Farm, was there electricity and stuff?
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Because when I lived in Langoes, we had no electric.
No, no.
I got the Aladdin lamp there, the hanging Aladdin lamp.
Yeah.
And, um, I've got lots of table lamp that's in there, that's with oil, and, uh, we didn't
have any out-to-water or cold water or anything like that.
Yes.
Because you talked about the winter of 47, what was the winter of 62, 63 like?
Uh, I was down here then, of course.
Oh, here?
Yes, yes, it was bad then.
Oh, right, yeah.
Um, I used to go up to Castleton with the tractor, uh, to, um, have the lorry to come
down, you know, to bring it down.
Really?
And then, um, in the evenings then, um, a couple of the locals there, the youngsters,
he'd, um, they'd taken down the six bells on a, on a, on a big board, drag it down the,
down the road, you know.
Oh, yes, we had quite a lot of snow.
Yes, yes, yes.
But we had more when we Langoes.
I can remember seeing on Penavan.
Yeah.
Uh, down one of the crevices in June.
There was still snow.
Really?
Mm, my goodness.
I can see that now.
Went on and on and on, didn't it?
Yeah, it did, it did.
Yeah.
Did anyone ever go skating on Marines or anything like that?
Uh, on the, on the lake.
On the lake.
Oh, on the, on the, oh sorry, Langoes Lake they used to go, but I mean, well, it was frozen
over and a motorbike went across and I was never known before.
Really?
It went across the other side.
I've never heard that before.
Mm, mm, yeah.
Brave man.
They reckon they did.
But, uh, yes, I should say, but many did freeze, didn't they?
Yeah.
You know, it's just, and, um, yeah, we used to go to the
Langoes, we used to go, we used to go, and, uh, a crowd of us from where we lived in Langoes,
we used to take one of these little boats.
Uh, we used to go down to, and the other side of Langoes is Langasty.
Mm.
And, I don't know where, you've been to Langoes, would you?
Mm, mm, mm.
And if you look across there, there's a little hall,
Mm.
About three fields from the end of the river, I said, and, uh, Langoessey Hall,
and we used to go across there to dances, and we'd take one of these, uh, skiff, uh, boats,
you know, and we'd row across there.
Did you really?
And, um...
That's quite some distance.
Yeah, it was, really.
But when you're young, you don't notice distance, do you?
I wouldn't do it now.
No.
And we used to tether it there, and walk up these two fields, go to the dance,
come back, then, and roll back.
My goodness.
Imagine if my daughter was doing that, I'd be, you know,
Yeah, or what we used to do.
It's good our parents don't know what we're doing.
Yeah, yeah, what we used to do then, years ago, when we were young.
Do you remember the, um, uh, did you ever help with haymaking as a young farmer's wife?
Uh, well, yes, dry the tractor, perhaps, and that, you know, the baling.
Oh, right.
And, of course, um, we had, um, I don't know, a photograph, I don't know what I got,
I might have got a photograph here, where, um, we just came up, excuse me, I don't know.
Oh, what's this price here, then, Margaret?
Well, this is when I was, I was, uh, First Lady Chairman of, um, of, um, St. Mellon's Show.
Now, you, that was a big show, someone said to me.
Oh, yes, oh, it was lovely, oh, yes, oh, fair play, it was.
And I was looking forward to St. Mellon's Show.
So, is it a very strong farming community?
Is it a very close-knit farming community to go there?
Um, yes, I think, yeah, I think so, yes, yes.
You know, we do a lot of things together.
We had two donkeys, and, um, uh, this donkey down Sluths, and then we put her in foal,
and, oh, you've never seen such a sweet thing when this little one came.
I think the whole village came down to see it.
Really?
Oh, just the, the deal thing.
Someone told me that farmers kept donkeys because they were good luck.
Well, yes, they, they, they, um, they do, a lot of people have had donkeys with cattle.
Hmm. Hmm. Hmm.
But I've never heard that before.
Yes, yes, I don't know whether it's, oh, there's the, uh, I spent a little, little one.
Wow.
This is 1955.
I sold my sheep and I bought the little sports car.
Is that you?
Yeah.
No, that's not me.
My, that's my mother and my aunt, but that's the little car I bought.
You bought it?
Yeah, I sold the sheep and I bought the little car.
Oh, I think that's so impressive.
That must have been very unusual for a young woman then.
Oh, yeah, we used to have some fun.
We used to go, um, following the hounds.
Did you?
Yeah, on the top there, and, um, yeah.
And then one day, um, walking back to the middle of the car, and here comes the local policeman
with a steering wheel in his hand.
He did the steering wheel off.
Why?
I went to Blackpool and that.
And back.
Oh, my goodness.
Yeah.
Me.
What sort of car is it?
It was a, uh, built up, um, Le Mans, the singer.
It had a singer engine.
I am so impressed with you.
Oh, my goodness.
And then, so you would follow the hounds down on the malls?
Yes.
Yeah.
Eric was telling me about that.
Yes, yes.
The Shredega Hunt.
Oh, so where would you go?
And the Shredega Hunt was, um, based then in, um, Baisley.
Yeah.
But they've, um, it's all been built on now.
So they've gone up to Gettley Gare.
Yes.
The hounds up there.
Yeah.
So, um, I mean, we use them if we have dead stock or something.
We pay so much a year.
Yeah.
For them to pick it up, to take it up to the, uh, Austin, you know.
But then you would follow them in your car?
Yeah.
And who would you do that with?
And that's on top of Penaline.
I didn't throw a Penaline.
Yeah.
That's like an orchard there.
Yes, yes.
We used our trees.
Hmm.
So did you get apples off those as well?
Yes, apples and pears.
Did you, did you ever make cider from them?
No, no, but we used to can them.
Can them?
Hmm.
Gosh, that's that.
So where was the orchard then?
And this, this, this, this was my...
So where was the orchard here?
There.
Oh, gosh.
Okay.
And this was my garden out by here.
Ah.
Did you ever have horses on your farm?
Um, no.
No.
Not just the two donkeys.
Yeah.
Oh, he did.
Oh, gosh, that's me when I was, oh, I shouldn't be showing you this.
It's 1951.
Oh, please do.
I represented, uh, Lango, Miss Lango, Lango in Breconshire.
Really?
So when it was haymaking, would you have had to make all the lunches for everyone coming
in who was helping with the haymaking?
Yeah, usually in the evening I'd cook, uh, cook ham potatoes and stuff like that.
They'd come in at supper time.
Yeah.
And not so much in the daytime.
I mean, they'd have some in to eat sandwiches or something.
Yeah.
But, uh, I used to cook them in the evening, you know, for them to come in.
Mm.
Yeah, and they'd come back.
Oh.
Yeah, we had a lovely life, really.
And that was me.
So did you ever, you were probably then too young to have ever thatched hay ricks then
and stuff.
Uh, oh, well, yeah, I've seen them then.
Have you?
Yes.
Yeah.
When I was at my grandparents, they used to do it there.
Mm.
Uh, but of course we've always had the bans and because of the bales now, but we used to
do small bales.
Yeah.
Um, I think there's a certain amount of small bales now, if I remember rightly.
Um, because it's the round ones now, isn't it?
Yes, of course.
Yeah.
So times have altered.
So was there any, there's something I've been meaning to ask, and I've forgotten to
ask everybody else, but was there, excuse me, any, any food or, um, meals?
Yeah.
So for example, my parents are Irish and it's a traditional field meal we would be have
would be boiled ham, parsley sauce and something called chump, which was potatoes and onions
and cabbage.
Yes.
Yeah.
Is there anything on the morse that was traditional like that?
Any particular dishes or?
I used to always boil ham.
Yeah.
You know, I like boiled ham, it's nice and potatoes and stuff like that.
Um, no, I suppose, do it.
I think it's, I think it's a thing that's, um, a farmhouse, uh, meal isn't it?
Boiled ham, potatoes, peas, parsley sauce.
Yeah.
You know, that type of thing isn't it?
So you would always be in the kitchen providing food for people working on the farm?
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Oh yes, yes.
Yes, yes.
And, um, yes, I used to, um, go out and feed the chicken and things, I used to feed the poultry,
you know, feed the poultry and all that, but, um, yes, and they'd come in then about two
o'clock, ten o'clock and then they'd sit down and it's a supper and then they'd go about
twelve o'clock, one o'clock.
Wow.
Yeah, yeah, well I just enjoy the hay making, you know, the harvest time was to be lovely.
Really?
Well, why was, what was it, why did you like it?
Because it was just a...
Well, um, I think, well, meeting, they used to come in and, you know, and then, you know,
we'd, um, go hauling the bales and all this business, you know, the loose hay years ago.
Yeah.
I thought I had a photograph here of, um, I haven't caught one, but I had a photograph here
of the, um, oh, what was it?
Yeah.
So do you, do you remember any of the people who used to work for the drainage ball that
used to come round and clear the reens and stuff?
Um, oh dear, what was his name? Hmm.
Um, I can see him now.
Oh, really?
Oh, oh, they look into me in a moment.
Yes, he's just slashed it over the long-handed hook.
Oh, do you remember that?
Down the Broadway.
Yeah.
Down the Broadway particularly.
Um, oh.
Well, the one has died now, back a couple of months ago.
Um.
Oh.
Hmm.
I can't think of the other gentleman.
I can see him, I can see him now doing this, you know.
Yeah.
Well, that's silly, isn't it?
I'll come to you.
You'll come.
Yeah.
And so, and so Dilwin was on the drainage board?
Yeah, Dilwin was on the drainage board and his father was before him.
Yeah.
Mm.
So what did that mean?
Did it mean just, you know, was it an important role?
Um, well, I suppose it controlled the reens and everything really, wasn't it?
Mm.
The drainage board more or less, you know, to, um, see that they were cut and the reed, the
reeds were cut and everything from, off the sides, and, I suppose, controlled the, um,
the gates.
Yes.
They'd open out opposite, at the bottom of, um, the Broadway.
Yeah.
The gates are automatic, it's all automatic now, you see.
Years ago, it used to have to be done more or less by, by hands.
You know.
So, it's, it's, the mows are very interested, really.
Mm.
Very interesting, aren't they, in different things?
I think so.
Yes.
I think it's fascinating, actually.
It's so different.
Um, what about fish?
Did you ever get eels in the reen or...?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Down the bottom, down the bottom of the dry, out, sluice, you know.
Yeah.
You used to have eels out of there.
Did you?
Yes.
Mm.
What, used to cut them?
Oh, yes.
I used to live an eel.
Really?
So how did you catch them and cut them?
Oh, you'd catch them, you know, you'd catch them with a, a, a, a, a, a rod.
A rod.
Yeah.
And put something on the end of it, you know, and catch them like that.
And you'd put them in the bucket then.
Yeah.
So as, um, you know, they'd have fresh water, and then you'd, um, you'd kill them and, um,
eat them.
How long would you keep them?
I wouldn't.
He wouldn't.
Oh, no.
You'd keep them in the fresh bucket for a few days, fresh of water.
Oh, yes.
Change the water for a day until as soon as I get the, um, well, the earthy stuff.
Yeah.
Otherwise you'd be eating earth.
So you would do that?
Yeah.
Really?
And then you would skin it?
Skin it and then cook it.
Yeah.
Just fry it in the frying pan, chop it up in bits.
Really?
But there were very keen.
I mean, I, I enjoy anything.
Yeah.
Or everything, put it that way.
I'm not fed even with my food.
I enjoy a lot.
That's a good free source of food, though.
Yeah, it is, yes.
What about Elvis?
Was that something anyone ever had down there?
No.
I don't think so.
No, no.
Down the bottom end of the, the, the, um, drive of Boston, they'd be, uh, you have them
down there.
I'd have to get them up, up through the, um, you know, up the fields, you'd get them in
the, the Boston's.
Did you?
Yeah.
Crikey.
Oh, yes.
It's, um, it's fascinating really, isn't it?
When you think back what you've seen and done.
What about church?
Did your family ever go to church?
You know, when you were down living on.
Yes.
I used to go to St. Peter's Church, which is the big church in the village.
Yeah.
But of course that closed.
Mm.
And, um, it's a house now, prison.
Is that something the whole family would go to?
Uh, yes.
Sunday morning we used to try and go to church on a Sunday evening.
Mm.
I mean, Father Prosser was a church warden there.
Was he?
There was father.
Yeah.
Oh, yes, he was a big churchman.
Was he?
Yes, yes.
And Mother Prosser used to go.
Yeah.
And do it occasionally.
And, um, they were married, they were married in Peter's Stone Church.
But of course it closed then, a little while after.
And, um, it's a house now.
People's got it as a house.
Yeah.
They were living in there.
I don't know.
Unfortunately, the gentleman died now only last year.
Um, his wife and the child are still there.
But, um, apparently they were, I've never been in there since, naturally.
But they were living in pods.
Were they?
It's a big churchman.
It's huge, high.
Crikey.
Oh, yeah.
Tremendous height.
Yeah.
Been at the top of the tower.
Lovely view from there.
Really?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
And then...
Would the congregation have been very big?
Um, well, yes, it varied then.
You know, it's like, Marshfield is a bigger church.
Or they do get more, um, congregation there.
Because I suppose it's in a bigger village, isn't it?
And that's a nice church too, St Mary's Church.
I've got, um, doings, I've got a rose tree down there for doing.
But I've also got a casket up in the field up here.
Have you?
Of his, um, ashes, yes.
Oh, yes.
And, um...
Do you remember any characters that stand out for you that you remember?
Well, um, before the buildings that are, oh, they're on the other side of the road now,
there were buildings, but not like they are now.
And there used to be an old fellow living in there.
Yeah.
And, um, Dennis, his name was.
And, uh, he used to wear a long, long coat.
Uh, he lived in there and there was a grate in the corner where you'd have a bit of a fireplace if you wanted it.
And Dennis, and he'd walk from there then into town, or Rumney.
Yeah.
And walk back.
I can see him now, it was in this ages ago.
Yeah.
But he had this long, long black coat.
And then there was another one down at, um, uh, the farm down at, um, St. Brides.
And his name was, um, what, he was another character.
They, um, oh, I can't, I can't think of his name.
He lived in a, in a barn.
Well, they're kind of like, I don't like to use the word tramp, but kind of like a, just somebody who used to...
Well, they were, yes, they were kind of a tramp type of person, you know.
Yeah.
Uh, Billy Mitch, that was down there.
That's right.
And Dennis used to be in this one, that, um, in our, in our barn over there.
They were no trouble.
I mean, you know, they, um, actually, I think Father Prosser, uh, went over there one day and, and he, he died in the, Boston, and so.
Really?
Yeah.
Where to get the police and all that was, whatever.
Awesome, you know.
But, um, no, they were characters about then, weren't they?
Yeah.
Years ago, like that.
They'd, um, uh, well, I can see them, I can place them now.
And it's going back a little while.
Yes, Dennis and, um, Billy Mitch used to call them.
And he'd always, um, and if, they'd reckon as if the aeroplanes were coming over during the war,
because that was when he was there, down the war, um, he turned his pipe upside down in case he's,
Oh, isn't that lovely?
Yeah, yeah.
Isn't that lovely?
It was coming from my, when he was thinking of another thing, because they might see his pipe.
Oh, right.
Oh, it was really funny.
Yeah.
Someone was telling me, now, where was it now?
I can't remember.
But, oh, something about that, was it St. Brides, or was it somewhere else there?
I might be wrong, that on the Sunday the pubs used to be closed in Wales.
This is when the border was different, so people used to flood over to here to use the pubs on the Sunday.
Is that right?
Maybe I've got that wrong.
Um, no, they used to, I, um, there was a law, wasn't there, where the pubs used to close on a Sunday, a lot of places.
Mm.
But I can't, I can't remember where that, um, you know, it was, um, wasn't with ours.
I might go that wrong, actually.
I mean, it's, I feel very sad, really, the six bells is closed.
Yeah.
You know.
I mean, and that's, that was, there was two cottages at the side of that.
Yeah.
And, um.
Was it a popular pub?
Oh, yes.
Oh, we've had a lot of lovely times down there.
Have you?
Especially Christmas time.
Yeah.
You know, we'd go down there and somebody would be playing the organ and we'd have a good old sing song and that, you know.
And, um, oh, I think I got a photograph.
Oh.
I'm boring you with these photographs.
You are not.
I love photographs, Margaret.
I really do love photographs.
Oh.
This is the six bells with all the holeses.
Oh, no, that's interesting.
I think I might have seen that photograph before.
Have you?
Maybe.
Um, no, I think.
He was no master.
Hmm.
So what hunt, which pack is this?
This would be the, um, uh, what's it?
Oh, Tredega.
Tredega.
Hmm.
To do the hunt, yes.
And this is the one you used to follow in your sports car.
Yeah.
Yes, that's right, yes.
Oh, and who's this?
Another one.
Hmm.
And do you know where this is taken?
No, I'm not certain of that.
Oh.
And, see, there was two cottages at the side of the six bells.
Oh, yes, yes.
And then this is, um, what was this, uh, Cairn-Philp.
Uh, only, only now, late, last year.
Because it looks like it's been closed for years, doesn't it?
Yes, it does, yes.
It looks like a mess, doesn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
Yes, it's a shame because we had a lot of fun down there.
Yeah.
Hmm, yes.
I just meant, look, thinking about the St. Melon's show.
Yes.
I mean, does that...
That's folded now.
That's folded.
Yeah.
But I understand that was a huge event in its time.
Yes, yes, it was very good.
We had, we had tremendous, uh, times with the show.
We used to be on the, um, first of all, St. Melon's show was, it used to be at, uh, Rimley,
the, um, the, uh, Rimley Hill.
And then it came then to, um, oh, what's there now?
Oh.
Down the bottom of the Cairn-A, Bakers used to have the farm.
Uh, oh.
Well, all these, oh, oh dear, I can't think of the name.
Oh, that's silly, isn't it?
You know, when you go down now towards Newport.
Yes.
All these buildings on the right hand side and this left hand side.
Like a radiator plant and stuff.
That's right, that's right, yes.
Stuff really.
We used to have the show there.
Did you?
And then we came then to Cairn-Mabley here down the bottom of this lane.
Where you came over the bridge by the farm park.
Yeah.
We used to have it there.
Oh, really?
Yes, in the big field there.
Yeah.
And, um, uh, oh yes, and then we went then to Tudeka House.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
But it was never the same.
Not really.
You know, we used to get, um, I don't know why it was, because it was a nice site.
But, um, we didn't get the agricultural side of things.
Yeah, it changed.
It changed altogether.
Yeah.
So where it was used to be by Khoi Kurnu.
Yes.
What was it?
So where that area is now, it's completely developed, isn't it?
Oh, yes.
Was it just farmland then?
It was farmland, yes.
It's hard to imagine.
It is, it is, isn't it?
Before the motorway and everything, it was...
Yes, well of course they're talking about putting another road up onto the motorway.
Yeah.
I don't know where that's going to happen, I don't know.
But it was just farmland.
Yes, yes.
It's...
It was just a little there.
And it was where all the local farmers would go along there, would they, to present,
show their livestock?
Yes, oh yes.
It was a proper agriculture show.
Oh yes, it was, definitely.
Everything was there.
Yeah.
Yes.
And the local show now is Macken show.
Okay.
And that's always on the first Saturday of July.
Yeah.
And that's a nice little show.
And that's the biggest what St. Mellins was, you know.
Yeah.
But, oh yes, oh yes, we've had a lot of fun at the shows.
Yeah, lovely.
But there they are, things altered aren't they over the years?
Yeah, they do.
You know.
I was just going to ask you about the lighthouse pub.
Is that something that locals would have ever used?
Was it, was that something people from out of town would use?
Uh, have you been down to the lighthouse pub?
Oh, it was very pleasant.
And a lot of people used to walk on the bank, you know, across the bank.
Really?
Mm.
What, would people walk along from the, Cardiff along here?
Yes, well yes, sort of from Remedy perhaps, you know, walk and then you'd see them go back
and that, you know.
Yes, yeah.
Oh, it's very pleasant on there, it's a nice day.
Yeah, it is, it's nice.
You know, it's, you go up and you can see both sides.
Yeah.
I'm sure he was telling me that, um, that people used to, um, stay in almost like a chalet,
seat shack in, in, on the, by the seawall.
Is that right?
At St. Bride?
Yes.
Or was it?
They've got caravans there now.
I don't think he meant the caravan, that people would rent out, would come out for the weekend
and, maybe he did mean the caravan actually.
I didn't think he did mean that.
Maybe I got that wrong.
But you said people would come out for the day on their bikes and...
Oh, a lot of people should recite Lotus and Brides.
Really?
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
Yes.
And of course they'd have these little tent things, wouldn't they?
Oh really?
Yes, yes.
You see those down there.
What, like people would camp?
Yes, yes, they'd sleep in there and then, you know.
Really?
Mm.
But, what, along by the wall or?
Um, not so much at all, but before they put the caravan sites, because they're a fair
big caravan site at St. Bride, apparently, which I haven't been there for years.
Excuse me.
And, um, they used to have these little tent things, you know, you see it on the television,
don't they?
Really?
Yes.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Yes, it's, uh, yeah, times have changed, haven't they?
Yeah, they have, they have.
Yeah.
There's one thing I have to ask you about, because I was asking about it, because part of what
I'm doing is, um, talking to people who live along the moors, but, um, that includes
people from the gypsy community.
Mm-hmm.
Um, do you remember any gypsies coming through and...?
Well, when we had ground in, um, we rented ground on the corner down in Simbra, I think,
um, um, uh, where the gypsy caravan site is now.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, there was to be the old, she was an old gypsy in the proper old, uh,
Rhyme top.
Yeah.
And they were there for years on the corner of our field, and we used to have to just
pass them, you know, to go into the field.
Yeah.
And they'd give no trouble at all.
But these are not gypsies, are they?
Mm-hmm.
They've been unkind, they're travellers.
Yeah, yeah.
You know?
Yeah.
And, I mean, they've got horses tethered, and, oh, but a friend of mine, she saw this
little tiny pony window, and she thought the pole thing, and I was like, it's wheat.
She came home and took some hay down to give it to her on the road.
Oh.
You know?
It's sad.
No, these are travellers more, I think, you know, it's, they're not the proper gypsy.
Mm-hmm.
I don't think.
There we are, that's life I suppose, isn't it?
It is, I suppose.
And there's so many of them now, isn't there?
So do you know, you go towards Cardiff and Rumley from where it lives now?
Yes.
I mean, again, when you first arrived, was that just agricultural land?
Oh yes, or just fields.
It's hard for me to imagine.
Yes, yes, and yes, and of course there's the, or KLG, which is a bit firm opposite, isn't
it?
Yeah.
And motor things, but, oh yes, it was all, it's most unfortunate.
I mean, there's a little house there as you go down towards the caravan site, on the right-hand
side, he was the coalman, it was a saddler.
And I look at it now and I think to myself, oh, if he came back and saw us, yeah, he'd
be very, very upset about it, you know, yeah.
He was the coalman?
Yes.
So he delivered coal?
He delivered coal, yes, yeah, the bags of coal.
Yes.
Mr. Sadler, his son is still alive, and he lives in Rumley.
Oh.
I've seen him for some time actually, but as the house was, it was immaculate, you know,
but as it is now, the slates are gone and, oh, it's a mess.
Oh.
He'd break his heart.
Do you remember a nurse, I'm sure it was Nurse Cox, she was the midwife?
Oh yes, yes, yes.
Now, she lived on the top of Pennerland, didn't she?
That's right.
Well, there were two cottages there, and I'm very friendly with Betty Stevens, her name is
now, she was Betty Bridge.
She lived in there, one of those, and her brother, and those, well of course they were
gone, was that?
Yes, Nurse Cox.
And there was another nurse who lived up there too, because Nurse Cox moved down to Castleton.
Yes.
On the left hand side, as you go down off the main road.
Oh yes, she used to go around delivering the babies.
Yeah.
Did she deliver Andrew and your daughter?
No, I went into Glossop.
Oh, did you?
Yes, yes, I went to Glossop, Taz.
Yeah.
I just stayed in with both of them actually.
But, yes, you're bringing back memories for me as well.
Oh, well I met her...
Well, I suppose we've got hedgerows here, whereas down there there's the reens.
Ah.
You know.
Yeah.
But not really, I suppose, no.
No, the grass is green.
Yeah, yeah.
And you drove a tractor from early on?
Oh yes, yes, yes.
I drove, when we moved from Langoes down to Betty Hill, on a Ferguson, Ferguson 25, excuse
me, I did three journeys from Langoes down to Betty Hill, and it took me four and a half
hours.
Really?
With the trailer behind, with implements and stuff, brought them down to Betty Hill Farm.
And then when I was going back, do you know the way, do you know Pontypool area, which,
you know...
I've been to Pontymoyle recently.
Pontymoyle?
Yeah.
Alright, yeah.
Well, when you go, it wasn't the new road then, because we wouldn't have been able to
go on the new road anyway.
Yeah.
We wouldn't be able to go on the motorway, you know, with a tractor, the same then.
And I used to go down past the Holston Jockey on the bottom, and I used to go down the hill
and knock it out of gear, and go down that hill like the crappers.
And I often think, well what if something came across the road?
I'd have another chance.
Oh my goodness.
You do things when you're young, don't you?
Yeah.
Yeah, I did three journeys for that.
I brought the plow up, and I brought a big trailer up with implements and, and yes, it
took me four and a half hours.
And were you the only child?
Yes.
Ah.
I haven't even got a cousin.
Really?
No.
But my two aunts didn't marry.
My one aunt didn't marry, but we didn't have any family.
And then my uncle, he married.
He didn't have any family.